For my book, I decided to go for something reasonably outside the box, so I went
for Soviet Bus Stops, a photo collection by Christopher Herwig. I had read about
this book in a blog somewhere maybe a year ago and it had caught my eye, so I was
really just glad to have an excuse to get it.

For this first bit, I decided to page through the entire book in a rather cursory
manner, just to get a sense of what I would be working with here. Apparently,
citizens of the former Soviet Union really loved their bus stops. It is pretty
understandable when you consider the fact that most aspects of life at the time
were fairly rigidly controlled, and most acts of self-expression were frowned upon.
It is no wonder that, then, fantastical expression seeps into whatever medium can
absorb it. These bus stops are not like our bus stops. Ours are glass and steel,
maybe with some advertisements, some seats and a roof. Pretty much that, uniformly,
no matter where you go. We basically don't give a shit about bus stops.

The Soviet people, however, gave many shits about bus stops. They went all out on
these things. First, there was no convention. Roof? Seats? Nah, not unless you feel
like they fit in the design. And who needs advertisements in the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics? Nobody, that's who. Paint some mermaids and heroes or something,
or maybe a crazy mosaic. And no long as you don't care about function, make the form
whatever you feel! There are cuboids, hexahedrons, giant clams, crashing waves,
coiling octopoids, etc.

These are sometimes next to rigidly constructed apartment complexes common at the
time, or more often are in the absolute middle of nowhere. The Soviets were proud
of their public transportation, after all. With the passage of time, some of these
are nowhere even close to a road. And yet, the local people like them enough to
keep them up and in reasonable repair. They are hangout spots, welcome breaks in
an otherwise monotonous landscape. It's really interesting to see how the almost
total abandonment of function in favor of form has allowed these bus stops to live
beyond their purpose.

And I think that is the message, here. Because we live in a free society where
you can say whatever you want and do more or less whatever you want, we are often
at a loss for words, and often without any idea of what to do. I think the lesson
to take is that anything you make can be infused with personal expression and
personality, no matter how banal its purpose. Even a silly bar chart can at least
be cool looking, and maybe it can even convey some sort of information.
